---
title: "output"
description: "terraform-docs configuration file, i.e. .terraform-docs.yml"
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "Configuration"
weight: 127
toc: false
---

Since `v0.12.0`

Insert generated output to file if `output.file` (or `--output-file string` CLI
flag) is not empty. Insersion behavior can be controlled by `output.mode` (or
`--output-mode string` CLI flag):

- `inject` (default)

  Partially replace the `output-file` with generated output. This will create
  the `output-file` if it doesn't exist. It will also append to `output-file`
  if it doesn't have surrounding comments.

- `replace`

  Completely replace the `output-file` with generated output. This will create
  the `output-file` if it doesn't exist.

The output generated by formatters (`markdown`, `asciidoc`, etc) will first be
inserted into a template, if provided, before getting saved into the file. This
template can be customized with `output.template` or `--output-template string`
CLI flag.

**Note:** `output.file` can be relative to module root or an absolute path.
**Note:** `output.template` is optional for mode `replace`.

The default template value is:

```text
<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
{{ .Content }}
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
```

This template consists of at least three lines (all of which are mandatory):

- begin comment
- `{{ .Content }}` slug
- end comment

You may change the wording of comment as you wish, but the comment must be present
in the template. Also note that `SPACE`s inside `{{ }}` are mandatory.

You may also add as many lines as you'd like before or after `{{ .Content }}` line.

**Note:** `{{ .Content }}` is mandatory if you want to customize template for mode
`replace`. For example if you wish to output to YAML file with trailing comment, the
following can be used:

```yaml
formatter: yaml

output:
  file: output.yaml
  mode: replace
  template: |-
    # Example trailing comments block which will be placed at the top of the
    # 'output.yaml' file.
    #
    # Note that there's no <!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS --> and <!-- END_TF_DOCS -->
    # which will break the integrity yaml file.

    {{ .Content }}
```

### Template Comment

Markdown doesn't officially support inline commenting, there are multiple ways
to do it as a workaround, though. The following formats are supported as begin
and end comments of a template:

- `<!-- This is a comment -->`
- `[]: # (This is a comment)`
- `[]: # "This is a comment"`
- `[]: # 'This is a comment'`
- `[//]: # (This is a comment)`
- `[comment]: # (This is a comment)`

The following is also supported for AsciiDoc format:

- `// This is a comment`

The following can be used where HTML comments are not supported (e.g. Bitbucket
Cloud):

```yaml
output:
  file: README.md
  mode: inject
  template: |-
    [//]: # (BEGIN_TF_DOCS)
    {{ .Content }}

    [//]: # (END_TF_DOCS)
```

Note: The empty line before `[//]: # (END_TF_DOCS)` is mandatory in order for
Markdown engine to properly process the comment line after the paragraph.
